Question - 1  What is DBMS?
Solution - DBMS is a collection of programs that facilitates users to create and maintain a database.
In other words, DBMS provides us an interface or tool for performing different operations such as the creation of a database, inserting data into it,
deleting data from it, updating the data, etc. 

Question - 2 What are the advantages and disadvantages of DBMS?
Solution - Advantages :-
1. Redundancy Controlled
2. Ease in accessing data
3. data Consistency
4. Secure

Disadvantages :-
1. Operating Cost is high
2. Need expertise to handle ( Complex)
3. Confidentiality issues
4. Performance issues

Question - 3 What do you mean by transparent DBMS?
Solution - The transparent DBMS is a type of DBMS which keeps its physical structure hidden from users.
Physical structure or physical storage structure implies to the memory manager of the DBMS, and it describes how the data stored on disk.

Question - 4 How many types of database languages are?
Solution - 1. Data Definition Language (DDL) 
2. Data Manipulation Language (DML) 
3. DATA Control Language (DCL)
4. Transaction Control Language (TCL) 

Question - 5 What is a database ?
Solution - A Database is a logical, consistent and organized collection of data that it can easily be accessed, managed and updated.
Databases, also known as electronic databases are structured to provide the facility of creation, insertion, updating of the data efficiently 
and are stored in the form of a file or set of files.

Question - 6 What are the unary operations in Relational Algebra?
Solution - Unary operations are those operations which use single operands. 
Ex - As in SELECTION relational operators are used for example - =,<=,>=, and Projection etc.

Question - 7 What are ACID properties?
Solution - ACID properties are for transactions:

A => Atomicity: the entire transaction happens in one go
C => Consistency: database must be consistent before and after the transaction
I => Isolation: transactions do not interfere with each other; multiple
transactions can happen simultaneously
D => Durability: A successful transaction is reflected even if a system failure happens.

Question - 8 What are the different types of relationships in the DBMS ?
Solution - One-to-One: Each table record is related to only one record in another table. Example, employee_id, and unique_ssn_id

One-to-many or vice-versa (many-to-one): A record in one table can be related to more than one record in another table. Example, employee_id and phone_number

Many-to-Many: A record in the first table can be related to more than one records in the second table, and vice-versa: example, customer_id and product_id.


Question - 9 Describe the types of keys?
Solution - 1. Primary Key
2. Candidate Key
3. Super Key
4. Foreign Key


Question - 10 What is Join?
Solution - The Join operation is one of the most useful activities in relational algebra.
It is most commonly used way to combine information from two or more relations. 

Types of Joins 
A. inner Join :
 1. Theta join
 2. Natural join
 3. Equi join
B. Outer Join :
 1. Left outer join
 2. Right outer join
 3. Full outer join
 
Question - 11 How can you delete the duplicate row in a table?
Solution - To overcome this problem, we use a DISTINCT keyword.


Question - 12 What is the difference between UNIQUE key and PRIMARY key constraints?
Solution - Unique Key :- 
1. A table can contain multiple unique keys.
2. NULL values are allowed.
3. It helps to maintain a unique data in a column of a table.

Primary Key - 
1. A table can contain only one primary key.
2. NULL values are not allowed.
3. It helps to identify a unique row from a table.
 
 
Question -13 What do you mean by Object-Relational DBMS?
Solution The object-relational database (ORD) is a database management system (DBMS) that are composed of both an object-oriented database (OODBMS) 
and a relational database (RDBMS). ORD supports the essential components of an object-oriented database model in its schemas and the query language used,
such as inheritance, classes, and objects.
 
 
Question - 14 What are SQL triggers?
Solution - Triggers are stored procedures that are invoked when some event like insert, update or delete happens in the database on a particular table.


Question - 15 What do you understand by Data Model?
Solution The Data model is specified as a collection of conceptual tools for describing data, data relationships, data semantics and constraints. 

Here is the number of data models:

Hierarchical data model
network model
relational model
Entity-Relationship model
 
