Question - 1 What is SDLC?
Solution - Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) is an end to end process that defines the flow of the development of a project from requirements stage to the maintenance and support stage. 
The stages in SDLC are requirements analysis, planning, definition, design, development, testing, deployment, and support (maintenance).

Question - 2 Explain some important differences between C & C++.
Solution - C - language :- 
1. C is a procedural language.
2. Dynamic memory allocation is done through malloc() and calloc() functions.
3. Main function can be called from any other functions.
4. No operator and function overloading
5. Exception handling is not supported

C++ - Language
1. C++ is an Object-Oriented language.
2. Memory allocation is done using the ‘new’ operator.
3. Main function cannot be called from any other functions.
4. It is easy to implement function overloading and operator overloading in C++
5. Full support for exception handling


Question - 3 What is a pointer? 
Solution - Pointer is a variable that stores the address of another variable that contains some value in it.. 

Question - 4 What is memory Leak in Heap ?
Solution - When there is a space area in heap , but no variable in stack pointing to that memory location.

Question - 5 What is Inhertiance ? Name its types.
Solution - Inheritance refers to inheriting the data members and properties of a parent class to a child class. A class 
which is derived from another class is often called as a sub-class, and the class from which the child class is derived is known as super-class or parent class.

Its types are :- 
1. Single inheritance
2. Multiple Inheritance
3. Multi-level Inheritance
4. Multi-path Inheritance
5. Hierarchical Inheritance
6. Hybrid Inheritance

Question - 6 What is Deadlock ? Name its Prevention Techniques .
Solution - Deadlock is a situation where a set of processes are blocked because each process is holding a resource 
and waiting for another resource acquired by some other process. 

Its Prevention Techniques are :- 
1. Mutual exclusion
2. Resource holding
3. No preemption
4. Circular wait
